## 2023/12/04

### 1. Deduction of the operators of momentum, energy and angular momentum 动量、能量、角动量算符的推导

- The wave function 波函数
    $$\psi = \mathrm e^{\mathrm i(\boldsymbol k \cdot \boldsymbol r - \omega t)} = \mathrm e^{\mathrm {i \over \hbar}(\boldsymbol p \cdot \boldsymbol r - E t)}$$

    Because the wave function is an indication of probability, it must exists that $$\iiint _{(V)} |\psi|^2 \mathrm d\tau=1.$$

- The derivation of $\hat p$ 推导动量算符 $\hat p$

    $$\nabla \psi = {\partial \psi \over \partial \boldsymbol r} = {\mathrm i \over \hbar}\boldsymbol p \psi$$

    $$\Rightarrow \boldsymbol p \psi = -\mathrm i \hbar \nabla \psi$$

    $$\Rightarrow \hat p = -\mathrm i \hbar \nabla$$

    From this we can see that momentum is linked with space (动量与空间相联系), and consequently, the conservation of momentum (动量守恒) is related to spatial translation invariance (空间平移不变性).

- The derivation of $\hat E$ 推导能量算符 $\hat E$

    $${\partial \psi \over \partial t} = -{\mathrm i \over \hbar}E \psi$$

    $$\Rightarrow E \psi = \mathrm i \hbar {\partial \over \partial t} \psi$$

    $$\Rightarrow \hat E = \mathrm i \hbar {\partial \over \partial t}$$

    From this we can see that energy is linked with time (能量与时间相联系), and consequently, the conservation of energy (能量守恒) is related to time translation invariance (时间平移不变性).

- The derivation of $\hat{\boldsymbol{L}}$ 推导角动量算符$\hat{\boldsymbol{L}}$

    From $\hat p = -\mathrm i \hbar \nabla$, we know that $$\hat{\boldsymbol{L}} = \hat{\boldsymbol{r}} \times \hat{\boldsymbol{p}} = \hat{\boldsymbol{r}} \times \left( -\mathrm i \hbar \nabla \right) = -\mathrm i \hbar \hat{\boldsymbol{r}} \times \nabla.$$

    From this we can see that angular momentum is linked with space (角动量与时空相联系), and consequently, the conservation of angular momentum (角动量守恒) is related to spacial rotation invariance (时间平移不变性).


### 2. Noether's theorem (1918) 诺特定理

by Emmy Noether (1882~1935)

#### (0) Introduction 引入

*Freeman Dyson: Birds and Frogs (2009)*

- There are two kinds of scientists:

    - **Birds**: they fly high, see the landscape and have delight in unifying
    - **Frogs**: they reside in the mud and see the details

- Four jokes by nature:

    - the square root of minus one that the physicist Erwin Schrödinger put into his wave equation when he invented wave mechanics 被放入薛定谔波函数的-1的平方根
    - the precise linearity of quantum mechanics, the fact that the possible states of any physical object form a linear space 量子力学的精确线性，即物理对象的所有可能状态构成线性空间
    - the existence of quasi-crystals 拟晶体的存在
    - a similarity in behavior between quasi-crystals and the zeros of the Riemann Zeta function 拟晶体和黎曼 $\zeta$ 函数在行为上的相似性

#### (1) Contents 内容

**Every differentiable symmetry of the action of a physical system with conservative forces has a corresponding conservation law.**

每个连续对称性都有着相应的守恒定律。

#### (2) Examples of Noether's theorem 诺特定理的例证

We will focus on five pairs of conserved physical quantities and symmetry:

| Physical quantities (物理量) | Corresponding symmetry (对应的对称性) |
| :-------------------------: | :----------------------------------: |
| Momentum (动量) | Spatial translation invariance (空间平移不变性) |
| Angular momentum (角动量) | Spatial rotation invariance (空间旋转不变性) |
| Energy (能量) | Time translation invariance (时间平移不变性) |
| Charge (电荷) | Gauge invariance (规范不变性) |
| Mass-Energy (质-能守恒) | Time translation invariance (时间平移不变性) |

##### ① Momentum (动量) $\Leftrightarrow$ Spatial translation invariance (空间平移不变性)

In a closed system, suppose we have a parallel infinitesimal displacement (平行无穷小位移) $\boldsymbol{\varepsilon} = \delta q_\alpha$ (constant), and then we know $$\delta L = \sum_{\alpha} \frac{\partial L}{\partial q_\alpha} \delta \boldsymbol{q}_\alpha = \boldsymbol{\varepsilon} \cdot \sum_{\alpha} \frac{\mathrm{d}}{\mathrm{d}t} \frac{\partial L}{\partial q_\alpha} \delta \dot{\boldsymbol{q}}_\alpha = \boldsymbol{\varepsilon} \cdot \frac{\mathrm{d}}{\mathrm{d}t} \sum_{\alpha} p_\alpha = \boldsymbol{\varepsilon} \cdot \frac{\mathrm{d} \boldsymbol{p}}{\mathrm{d}t} = \boldsymbol{0}.$$

Because $\boldsymbol{\varepsilon} \neq \boldsymbol{0}$, we have $$\frac{\mathrm{d} \boldsymbol{p}}{\mathrm{d}t} = \boldsymbol{0},$$which means that $\boldsymbol{p}$ is conserved.

Through this, we have deducted momentum conservation from spatial translation invariance.

##### ② Angular Momentum (角动量) $\Leftrightarrow$ Spatial rotation invariance (空间旋转不变性) / isotropy (各向同性)

Suppose we have a infinitesimal rotation angle (无穷小旋转角) $\delta \boldsymbol{\varphi}$ (constant), and then we know $$\delta \boldsymbol{r}_\alpha = \delta \boldsymbol{\varphi} \times \boldsymbol{r}_\alpha,$$ and $$\delta \boldsymbol{v}_\alpha = \delta \dot{\boldsymbol{r}}_\alpha = \delta \boldsymbol{\varphi} \times \dot{\boldsymbol{r}}_\alpha.$$

$$
\begin{align*}
    \delta L & = \sum_{\alpha} \left( \frac{\partial L}{\partial \boldsymbol{r}_\alpha} \cdot \delta \boldsymbol{r}_\alpha + \frac{\partial L}{\partial \dot{\boldsymbol{r}}_\alpha} \cdot \delta \dot{\boldsymbol{r}}_\alpha \right) \\
    & = \sum_{\alpha} \dot{\boldsymbol{p}}_\alpha \cdot \left( \delta \boldsymbol{\varphi} \times \boldsymbol{r}_\alpha \right) + \sum_{\alpha} \boldsymbol{p}_\alpha \cdot \left( \delta \boldsymbol{\varphi} \times \dot{\boldsymbol{r}}_\alpha \right) & \quad (1)\\
    & = \delta \boldsymbol{\varphi} \cdot \left[ \sum_{\alpha} \left( \dot{\boldsymbol{r}}_\alpha \times \boldsymbol{p}_\alpha + \boldsymbol{r}_\alpha \times \dot{\boldsymbol{p}}_\alpha \right) \right] & \quad (2)\\
    & = \delta \boldsymbol{\varphi} \cdot \left[ \sum_{\alpha} \frac{\mathrm{d}}{\mathrm{d}t} (\boldsymbol{r}_\alpha \times \boldsymbol{p}_\alpha) \right] \\
    & = \delta \boldsymbol{\varphi} \cdot \frac{\mathrm{d} \boldsymbol{M}}{\mathrm{d}t} \\
    & = \boldsymbol{0}.
\end{align*}
$$

Note: From $(1)$ to $(2)$, we used the equation $\boldsymbol a \cdot (\boldsymbol b \times \boldsymbol c) = \boldsymbol c \cdot (\boldsymbol a \times \boldsymbol b) = \boldsymbol b \cdot (\boldsymbol c \times \boldsymbol a).$

Because $\delta \boldsymbol{\varphi} \neq \boldsymbol{0}$, we have $$\frac{\mathrm{d} \boldsymbol{M}}{\mathrm{d}t} = 0,$$ which means that $\displaystyle \boldsymbol{M} = \sum_{\alpha} \boldsymbol{r}_\alpha \times \boldsymbol{p}_\alpha$ is conserved. This indicates spatial rotation invariance (空间旋转不变性).

##### ③ Energy (能量) $\Leftrightarrow$ Time translation invariance (时间平移不变性) 

Suppose there is a time-translation-invariant system, where $L(q, \dot{q}, t) = L(q, \dot{q})$ doesn't depend on time $t$ explicitly. Then we have $$\begin{align*}
    \frac{\mathrm{d} L}{\mathrm{d}t} & = \sum_{\alpha} \left( \frac{\partial L}{\partial q_\alpha} \dot{q}_\alpha + \frac{\partial L}{\partial \dot q_\alpha} \ddot{q}_\alpha \right) \\
    & = \sum_{\alpha} \left( \frac{\mathrm{d}}{\mathrm{d}t} \frac{\partial L}{\partial \dot q_\alpha} \dot{q}_\alpha + \frac{\partial L}{\partial \dot q_\alpha} \ddot{q_\alpha} \right) \\
    & = \frac{\mathrm{d}}{\mathrm{d}t} \sum_{\alpha} \left( \frac{\partial L}{\partial \dot q_\alpha} \dot{q}_\alpha \right). \\
    & = \frac{\mathrm{d}}{\mathrm{d}t} \sum_{\alpha} \left( \frac{\partial T}{\partial \dot q_\alpha} \dot{q}_\alpha \right). \\
    & = \frac{\mathrm{d}}{\mathrm{d}t} \sum_{\alpha} \left( m \dot{q}_\alpha \dot{q}_\alpha \right). \\
    & = \frac{\mathrm{d}}{\mathrm{d}t} (2T).
\end{align*}$$

From this, we know that $$\frac{\mathrm{d} L}{\mathrm{d}t} = \frac{\mathrm{d} (2T)}{\mathrm{d}t},$$ and $$\frac{\mathrm{d} (2T - L)}{\mathrm{d}t} = \frac{\mathrm{d} [2T - (T - V)]}{\mathrm{d}t} = \frac{\mathrm{d} (T + V)}{\mathrm{d}t} = \frac{\mathrm{d} E}{\mathrm{d}t} = 0.$$

That is to say, energy $E$ is conserved, and we have the energy conservation law.

##### ④ Charge (电荷) $\Leftrightarrow$ Gauge symmetry (规范对称性)

*Fusion: Education + Research*

In 2022, <i>Physical Review Letters</i> (PRL) published [*Machine Learning Hidden Symmetries*](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.128.180201).

In [*More is different*](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.177.4047.393) by P. W. Anderson (1923-2020)*: "It is only slightly overstating the case to say that physics is the study of symmetry."

*译者注：赵爹上课没写only这个词，于是整句话意思完全不一样了（笑哭）*

- Derivation of charge conservation 电荷守恒的导出

    From the Maxwell's equations we know that $$\nabla \cdot \boldsymbol E = \dfrac{\rho}{\varepsilon_0}$$ and $$\nabla \times \boldsymbol{B} = \mu_0 \left( \boldsymbol{j} + \varepsilon_0 \frac{\partial \boldsymbol{E}}{\partial t} \right).$$

    The divergence of a curl is zero (旋度无散), and we have $$\begin{align*}
        \nabla \cdot \left( \nabla \times \boldsymbol{B} \right) & = \mu_0 \nabla \cdot \boldsymbol{j} + \mu_0 \varepsilon_0 \nabla \cdot \frac{\partial \boldsymbol{E}}{\partial t} \\
        & = \mu_0 \left[ \nabla \cdot \boldsymbol{j} + \varepsilon_0 \frac{\partial \left( \nabla \cdot \boldsymbol{E} \right)}{\partial t} \right] \\
        & = \mu_0 \left[ \nabla \cdot \boldsymbol{j} + \varepsilon_0 \frac{\partial}{\partial t} \left( \frac{\rho}{\varepsilon_0} \right) \right] \\
        & = \mu_0 \left[ \nabla \cdot \boldsymbol{j} + \frac{\partial \rho}{\partial t} \right] \\
        & = 0.
    \end{align*}$$

    Thus we have $$\nabla \cdot \boldsymbol{j} + \frac{\partial \rho}{\partial t} = 0,$$ which is called **the charge density continuity equation (电荷连续性方程).**

    Written in covariant and contravariant (协变和逆变) form is $$\partial_{\mu} J^{\mu} = 0.$$

    Here, $$\partial_{\mu} = \left( \frac{1}{c} \frac{\partial}{\partial t}, \frac{\partial}{\partial x}, \frac{\partial}{\partial y}, \frac{\partial}{\partial z} \right),$$ and $$J^{\mu} = \left( c \rho, v_x \rho, v_y \rho, v_z \rho \right).$$

- Gauge invariance 规范不变性

    *整理者吐槽：规范不变性这段在笔记里面出现三次了！我复制粘贴两次了！属实是祖传代码了呵呵呵*

    From the second equation of the Maxwell's equations $$\nabla \cdot \boldsymbol B = 0,$$ we can see $B$ as the curl of a certain vector $\boldsymbol A$. We call this $\boldsymbol A$ **magnetic vector potential** (磁矢势), and $$\boldsymbol B  = \nabla \times \boldsymbol A.$$

    Because the curl of the gradient of a certain scalar (标量梯度的旋度) is zero, we can add a scalar field $\psi$, and 

    $$\boldsymbol A \mapsto \boldsymbol A + \nabla \psi \  (*)$$

    $$\boldsymbol B  = \nabla \times (\boldsymbol A + \nabla \psi).$$

    From $$\nabla \times \boldsymbol E = -{\partial \boldsymbol B \over \partial t}$$ and put the $\boldsymbol B$ in, we can get $$\nabla \times \boldsymbol E = - {\partial \over \partial t}(\nabla \times \boldsymbol A) = - \nabla \times {\partial \boldsymbol A \over \partial t}$$

    $$\nabla \times (\boldsymbol E + {\partial \boldsymbol A \over \partial t}) = \boldsymbol 0.$$

    From this we can see $\boldsymbol E + \dfrac{\partial \boldsymbol A }{ \partial t}$ as the negative of the gradient of a scalar field $\varphi$ (标量场 $\varphi$ 梯度的负), and $$\boldsymbol E = - \dfrac{\partial \boldsymbol A }{ \partial t} - \nabla \varphi.$$

    When we put in the $\boldsymbol A$ shown by $(*)$, we can get:

    $$
    \begin{align*}
    \boldsymbol E & = - \dfrac{\partial}{ \partial t}(\boldsymbol A + \nabla \psi) - \nabla \varphi \\[2ex]
    & = - \dfrac{\partial \boldsymbol A }{ \partial t} - \nabla \left(\varphi + {\partial \psi \over \partial t}\right).
    \end{align*}
    $$

    This shows that, when we make the transformation below (**the gauge transformation** 规范变换)

    $$
    \left\{
    \begin{array} {l}
    \boldsymbol A \mapsto \boldsymbol A + \nabla \psi \\[1ex]
    \varphi \mapsto \varphi - \dfrac{\partial \psi}{\partial t}
    \end{array}
    \right.
    $$

    We can ensure that the fields $\boldsymbol B$ and $\boldsymbol E$ remain unchanged.

- One-dimensional manifold 一维流形 $\operatorname U(1)$

    Here $\operatorname U(1)$ stands for **unitarity 酉(或幺正)**.

    $$\operatorname U(\theta) = \mathrm{e}^{\mathrm{i} \theta} = \cos \theta + \mathrm{i} \sin \theta \quad (*)$$

    The conjugate (共轭) of $(*)$ is $$\operatorname U^*(\theta) = \mathrm{e}^{- \mathrm{i} \theta} = \cos \theta - \mathrm{i} \sin \theta.$$

    Note that this is a multiply-connected region (多连通域).

    *注：这里赵老师的板书是multiply region，经查似乎有误。*


##### ⑤ Mass-Energy (质-能守恒) $\Leftrightarrow$ Time translation invariance (时间平移不变性)

According to relativity theory, $$E = \gamma mc^2 = \frac{mc^2}{\sqrt{1 - v^2 / c^2}}.$$

Expand the Taylor series of the above equation (对上式做泰勒展开), and we get $$E = mc^2 \left( 1 + \frac{1}{2} \frac{v^2}{c^2} \right) = mc^2 + \frac{1}{2} mv^2.$$

This is a hidden math conservation.

Mass conservation has a similar form to charge conservation, but here $\boldsymbol{J}$ is the mass flow: $$\nabla \cdot \boldsymbol{J} + \frac{\partial \rho}{\partial t} = 0,$$ and it can also be written in covariant and contravariant form: $$\partial_{\mu} J^{\mu} = 0.$$

### 3. Mathematical structuralism 数学结构主义 (科学哲学内容)

Emmy Noether (1882~1935)

mathematical structuralism 数学结构主义

mathematical structuralist 数学结构主义者

Frank Wilczek (2004 Nobel Prize in Physics): "That theorem (Noether's theorem) has been a guiding star to 20th and 21st century physics."

*下面放一下关于这个词条的维基百科页面（原页面和机翻）*

Original content of [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Structuralism_(philosophy_of_mathematics)&oldid=1165754999](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Structuralism_(philosophy_of_mathematics)&oldid=1165754999):

> **Structuralism (philosophy of mathematics)**
>
> Structuralism is a theory in the philosophy of mathematics that holds that mathematical theories describe structures of mathematical objects. Mathematical objects are exhaustively defined by their place in such structures. Consequently, structuralism maintains that mathematical objects do not possess any intrinsic properties but are defined by their external relations in a system. For instance, structuralism holds that the number 1 is exhaustively defined by being the successor of 0 in the structure of the theory of natural numbers. By generalization of this example, any natural number is defined by its respective place in that theory. Other examples of mathematical objects might include lines and planes in geometry, or elements and operations in abstract algebra.
>
> Structuralism is an epistemologically realistic view in that it holds that mathematical statements have an objective truth value. However, its central claim only relates to what kind of entity a mathematical object is, not to what kind of existence mathematical objects or structures have (not, in other words, to their ontology). The kind of existence that mathematical objects have would be dependent on that of the structures in which they are embedded; different sub-varieties of structuralism make different ontological claims in this regard.
>
> Structuralism in the philosophy of mathematics is particularly associated with Paul Benacerraf, Geoffrey Hellman, Michael Resnik, Stewart Shapiro and James Franklin.
>
> **Historical motivation**
>
> The historical motivation for the development of structuralism derives from a fundamental problem of ontology. Since Medieval times, philosophers have argued as to whether the ontology of mathematics contains abstract objects. In the philosophy of mathematics, an abstract object is traditionally defined as an entity that: (1) exists independent of the mind; (2) exists independent of the empirical world; and (3) has eternal, unchangeable properties. Traditional mathematical Platonism maintains that some set of mathematical elements—natural numbers, real numbers, functions, relations, systems—are such abstract objects. Contrarily, mathematical nominalism denies the existence of any such abstract objects in the ontology of mathematics.
>
> In the late 19th and early 20th century, a number of anti-Platonist programs gained in popularity. These included intuitionism, formalism, and predicativism. By the mid-20th century, however, these anti-Platonist theories had a number of their own issues. This subsequently resulted in a resurgence of interest in Platonism. It was in this historic context that the motivations for structuralism developed. In 1965, Paul Benacerraf published a paradigm changing article entitled "What Numbers Could Not Be". Benacerraf concluded, on two principal arguments, that set-theoretic Platonism cannot succeed as a philosophical theory of mathematics.
>
> Firstly, Benacerraf argued that Platonic approaches do not pass the ontological test. He developed an argument against the ontology of set-theoretic Platonism, which is now historically referred to as Benacerraf's identification problem. Benacerraf noted that there are elementarily equivalent, set-theoretic ways of relating natural numbers to pure sets. However, if someone asks for the "true" identity statements for relating natural numbers to pure sets, then different set-theoretic methods yield contradictory identity statements when these elementarily equivalent sets are related together. This generates a set-theoretic falsehood. Consequently, Benacerraf inferred that this set-theoretic falsehood demonstrates it is impossible for there to be any Platonic method of reducing numbers to sets that reveals any abstract objects.
>
> Secondly, Benacerraf argued that Platonic approaches do not pass the epistemological test. Benacerraf contended that there does not exist an empirical or rational method for accessing abstract objects. If mathematical objects are not spatial or temporal, then Benacerraf infers that such objects are not accessible through the causal theory of knowledge. The fundamental epistemological problem thus arises for the Platonist to offer a plausible account of how a mathematician with a limited, empirical mind is capable of accurately accessing mind-independent, world-independent, eternal truths. It was from these considerations, the ontological argument and the epistemological argument, that Benacerraf's anti-Platonic critiques motivated the development of structuralism in the philosophy of mathematics.
>
> **Varieties**
>
> Stewart Shapiro divides structuralism into three major schools of thought. These schools are referred to as the *ante rem*, the *in re*, and the *post rem*.
>
> The ***ante rem* structuralism** ("before the thing"), or **abstract structuralism** or **abstractionism** (particularly associated with Michael Resnik, Stewart Shapiro, Edward N. Zalta, and Øystein Linnebo) has a similar ontology to Platonism (see also modal neo-logicism). Structures are held to have a real but abstract and immaterial existence. As such, it faces the standard epistemological problem, as noted by Benacerraf, of explaining the interaction between such abstract structures and flesh-and-blood mathematicians.
>
> The ***in re* structuralism** ("in the thing"), or **modal structuralism** (particularly associated with Geoffrey Hellman), is the equivalent of Aristotelian realism (realism in truth value, but anti-realism about abstract objects in ontology). Structures are held to exist inasmuch as some concrete system exemplifies them. This incurs the usual issues that some perfectly legitimate structures might accidentally happen not to exist, and that a finite physical world might not be "big" enough to accommodate some otherwise legitimate structures. The Aristotelian realism of James Franklin is also an in re structuralism, arguing that structural properties such as symmetry are instantiated in the physical world and are perceivable. In reply to the problem of uninstantiated structures that are too big to fit into the physical world, Franklin replies that other sciences can also deal with uninstantiated universals; for example the science of color can deal with a shade of blue that happens not to occur on any real object.
>
> The ***post rem* structuralism** ("after the thing"), or **eliminative structuralism** (particularly associated with Paul Benacerraf), is anti-realist about structures in a way that parallels nominalism. Like nominalism, the post rem approach denies the existence of abstract mathematical objects with properties other than their place in a relational structure. According to this view mathematical systems exist, and have structural features in common. If something is true of a structure, it will be true of all systems exemplifying the structure. However, it is merely instrumental to talk of structures being "held in common" between systems: they in fact have no independent existence.

Google translate of [https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Structuralism_(philosophy_of_mathematics)&oldid=1165754999](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Structuralism_(philosophy_of_mathematics)&oldid=1165754999):

> **结构主义（数学哲学）**
>
> 结构主义是数学哲学中的一种理论，认为数学理论描述数学对象的结构。数学对象是通过它们在这种结构中的位置来详尽定义的。因此，结构主义认为数学对象不具有任何内在属性，而是由它们在系统中的外部关系定义。例如，结构主义认为，在自然数理论的结构中，数字1被详尽地定义为0的后继者。通过这个例子的推广，任何自然数都是由它在该理论中各自的位置来定义的。数学对象的其他示例可能包括几何中的线和平面，或抽象代数中的元素和运算。
>
> 结构主义是一种认识论现实主义观点，它认为数学陈述具有客观的真值。然而，它的中心主张只涉及数学对象是什么类型的实体，而不涉及数学对象或结构具有什么样的存在（换句话说，不涉及它们的本体论）。数学对象的存在类型取决于它们所嵌入的结构的存在类型。结构主义的不同分支在这方面提出了不同的本体论主张。
>
> 数学哲学中的结构主义与保罗·贝纳塞拉夫、杰弗里·赫尔曼、迈克尔·雷斯尼克、斯图尔特·夏皮罗和詹姆斯·富兰克林特别相关。
>
> **历史动机**
>
> 结构主义发展的历史动力源于本体论的一个基本问题。自中世纪以来，哲学家们一直在争论数学本体论是否包含抽象对象。在数学哲学中，抽象对象传统上被定义为一个实体：（1）独立于心灵而存在； （2）独立于经验世界而存在； (3)具有永恒、不变的特性。传统数学柏拉图主义认为，某些数学元素的集合——自然数、实数、函数、关系、系统——就是这样的抽象对象。相反，数学唯名论否认数学本体论中任何此类抽象对象的存在。
>
> 19世纪末20世纪初，一些反柏拉图主义的纲领开始流行。其中包括直觉主义、形式主义和谓语主义。然而，到了 20 世纪中叶，这些反柏拉图主义理论也存在一些自身的问题。这随后导致人们对柏拉图主义的兴趣重新兴起。正是在这种历史背景下，结构主义的动机得以发展。1965 年，Paul Benacerraf 发表了一篇改变范式的文章，题为“数字不可能是什么”。贝纳塞拉夫基于两个主要论点得出结论，集合论柏拉图主义作为数学哲学理论不可能成功。
>
> 首先，贝纳塞拉夫认为柏拉图式的方法没有通过本体论检验。他提出了反对集合论柏拉图主义本体论的论证，该论证现在历史上被称为贝纳塞拉夫的认同问题。贝纳塞拉夫指出，存在基本等效的集合论方法将自然数与纯集合联系起来。然而，如果有人要求将自然数与纯集合相关联的“真实”恒等声明，那么当这些基本等价的集合关联在一起时，不同的集合论方法会产生矛盾的恒等声明。这产生了集合论的错误。因此，贝纳塞拉夫推断，这种集合论的错误表明，不可能有任何柏拉图式的方法将数简化为集合来揭示任何抽象对象。
>
> 其次，贝纳塞拉夫认为柏拉图式的方法没有通过认识论的检验。贝纳塞拉夫认为，不存在访问抽象对象的经验或理性方法。如果数学对象不是空间或时间的，那么贝纳塞拉夫推断这些对象无法通过知识的因果理论获得。因此，柏拉图主义者提出了一个基本的认识论问题，即提供一个合理的解释，说明具有有限的、经验性思维的数学家如何能够准确地获得独立于思维、独立于世界的永恒真理。正是出于这些考虑，本体论论证和认识论论证，贝纳塞拉夫的反柏拉图批判推动了数学哲学中结构主义的发展。
>
> **品种**
>
> 斯图尔特·夏皮罗将结构主义分为三大思想流派。这些学派被称为前物（ante rem）、内物（in re）和后物（post rem）。
>
> **前物结构主义**（“事物之前”），或**抽象结构主义**或**抽象主义**（特别与 Michael Resnik、Stewart Shapiro、Edward N. Zalta 和 Øystein Linnebo 相关）有一个 与柏拉图主义相似的本体论（另见模态新逻辑主义）。结构被认为具有真实但抽象和非物质的存在。因此，正如贝纳塞拉夫所指出的，它面临着标准的认识论问题，即解释这种抽象结构与有血有肉的数学家之间的相互作用。
>
> **内物结构主义**（“在事物中”），或**模态结构主义**（特别与杰弗里·赫尔曼相关），相当于亚里士多德的实在论（真值的实在论，但关于抽象对象的反实在论 在本体论中）。结构被认为是存在的，因为某些具体系统体现了它们。这会带来常见的问题，即一些完全合法的结构可能会意外地不存在，并且有限的物理世界可能不够“大”以容纳一些其他合法的结构。詹姆斯·富兰克林的亚里士多德实在论也是一种重构主义，认为对称性等结构特性在物理世界中被实例化并且是可感知的。在回答未实例化的结构太大而无法融入物理世界的问题时，富兰克林回答说，其他科学也可以处理未实例化的共性； 例如，颜色科学可以处理任何真实物体上都不会出现的蓝色阴影。
>
> **后物结构主义**（“事物之后”），或**取消结构主义**（特别与保罗·贝纳塞拉夫相关），是关于结构的反实在论，其方式与唯名论相似。与唯名论一样，后物方法否认抽象数学对象的存在，其属性除了它们在关系结构中的位置之外。根据这种观点，数学系统是存在的，并且具有共同的结构特征。如果某件事对于一个结构来说是正确的，那么对于所有体现该结构的系统来说也是如此。然而，谈论系统之间“共有”的结构只是有帮助的：它们实际上没有独立存在。
